title: Interactive, Graph-Based Visual Analysis of High-Dimensional, Multi-Parameter Fluorescence Microscopy Data in Toponomics
authors: Steffen Oeltze, Wolfgang Freiler, Reyk Hillert, Helmut Doleisch, Bernhard Preim, Walter Schubert
abstract: In Toponomics, the function protein pattern in cells or tissue (the toponome) is imaged and analyzed for applications in toxicology, new drug development and patient-drug-interaction. The most advanced imaging technique is robot-driven multi-parameter fluorescence microscopy. This technique is capable of co-mapping hundreds of proteins and their distribution and assembly in protein clusters across a cell or tissue sample by running cycles of fluorescence tagging with monoclonal antibodies or other affinity reagents, imaging, and bleaching in situ. The imaging results in complex multi-parameter data composed of one slice or a 3D volume per affinity reagent. Biologists are particularly interested in the localization of co-occurring proteins, the frequency of co-occurrence and the distribution of co-occurring proteins across the cell.We present an interactive visual analysis approach for the evaluation of multi-parameter fluorescence microscopy data in toponomics. Multiple, linked views facilitate the definition of features by brushing multiple dimensions. The feature specification result is linked to all views establishing a focus+context visualization in 3D. In a new attribute view, we integrate techniques from graph visualization. Each node in the graph represents an affinity reagent while each edge represents two co-occurring affinity reagent bindings. The graph visualization is enhanced by glyphs which encode specific properties of the binding. The graph view is equipped with brushing facilities. By brushing in the spatial and attribute domain, the biologist achieves a better understanding of the function protein patterns of a cell. Furthermore, an interactive table view is integrated which summarizes unique fluorescence patterns. We discuss our approach with respect to a cell probe containing lymphocytes and a prostate tissue section.
vis citations:
leeuw_vis_06
dietzsch_vast_09
holten_infovis_06
meyer_infovis_09
oeltze_vis_07
